# Disable `cloud-init` on Ubuntu
This step-by-step tutorial will guide you on how to remove `cloud-init` and `unattended-upgrades` from your Ubuntu system. `cloud-init` is the Ubuntu package that handles early initialization of a cloud instance. `unattended-upgrades` allows installation of security upgrades automatically. 

If you no longer need `cloud-init` and `unattended-upgrades`, here is how to remove them and ensure your instance is in a desired state.

## Step 1: Remove `cloud-init`
First, we need to purg `cloud-init`. Purging will not only remove the package but also the config files. Enter the following command in your terminal:

```bash
sudo apt purge cloud-init
```

## Step 2: Remove `cloud-init` Configuration Files
Now, let's remove the remaining `cloud-init` configuration files to prevent the system from referencing them in the future.

```bash
sudo rm -rvf /etc/cloud
```

## Step 3: Remove `unattended-upgrades`
To remove `unattended-upgrades`, input the following command:

```bash
sudo apt purge unattended-upgrades
```

## Step 4: Remove `unattended-upgrades` Logs
Next, we want to remove the log files generated by `unattended-upgrades`:

```bash
sudo rm -rvf /var/log/unattended-upgrades
```

## Step 5: Remove Unnecessary Packages
Now, we will use `autoremove` option to remove packages that were automatically installed to satisfy dependencies for other packages and now are no longer needed:

```bash
sudo apt autoremove
```

## Step 6: Install `netplan.io`
Running the following command will install `netplan.io`, a network configuration utility:

```bash
sudo apt install netplan.io
```

## Step 7: Install `isc-dhcp-client`
Finally, we'll need to install `isc-dhcp-client`, which is a DHCP client used to automatically obtain and update IP addresses:

```bash
sudo apt install isc-dhcp-client
```

Now, you have successfully removed `cloud-init` and `unattended-upgrades` from your Ubuntu system. Please feel free to revisit this guide whenever you need assistance.
